
# Financial Derivatives
In this series of blog I will share my notes on financial derivatives. Today we're going to look at

 - What are Financial Derivative
 - Who Trades
 - Why

## What is a Financial Derivative 
 
A financial derivative is an economic contract whose value depends on or is derived from the value of another
instrument or underlying asset. So a derivative is not a security like a stock or a bond where you have ownership in a company or have lent money to a company. A derivative is simply a side bet with another party on how a different security will perform. These derivatives are not issued by companies the way stocks and bonds are. They don't raise money for companies the way an IPO or a bond offering does. They are simply a side bet on how another financial product will perform and they derived
their price from that financial product which referred to as the underlying asset or underlying. Derivatives are often broken down or categorized by the relationship between the underlying asset and the derivative. 

Things like 

 - Forwards and Futur
 - Options
 - Swaps

forwards, options or swaps. 

They can also be broken down by the type of underlying asset. Things like equity derivatives, foreign exchange derivatives, interest rate derivatives, commodity derivatives and
credit derivatives. Finally they're
broken down by the market in which they
trade so we've got exchange-traded
derivatives and over-the-counter
derivatives derivatives can be used for
the purpose of speculation or for
hedging a speculator is a trader who's
taking position
with the goal of making a profit a hedge
er is a trader who already has an
economic exposure and who takes an
offsetting position in order to reduce a
risk that they already have exposure to
often people are a little bit confused
by the term hedging they think it
relates to the idea of a hedge fund
which they often hear about in the press
a hedge er is not a hedge fund it's
simply a person who is trading a
financial instrument in order to reduce
their risks are to hedge their risk they
usually are already exposed to a
financial risk and their trading
activity reduces that risk exposure
there are a number of underlines for
derivatives available right now and new
ones are being developed all the time
some of the most popular underlyings are
equities which are also known as stocks
which are listed on public exchanges
companies like General Electric
Citigroup our Vodafone for example then
we have fixed income derivatives things
like government bonds corporate bonds
credit spreads baskets of mortgages
things like that and then we also things
like commodities like gold silver cotton
electricity then we also have indices
and foreign exchange which are popular
underlyings for derivatives there are
even derivatives that pay off on things
like weather events so our next thing we
want to talk about is who trades
derivatives with lots of people trade
derivatives we often break derivatives
traders down into different groups like
hedgers and speculators hedgers are
often producers or consumers of an
underlying or companies that are
required to typically have exposure to a
particular underlying in the normal
running of their business derivatives
allow the risk related to the price of
the underlying asset to be transferred
from one party to another
so for example a corn farmer on the
breakfast cereal manufacturing company
like Kellogg's could enter into a
futures contract to exchange a specified
amount of cash for a specified amount of
corn at some point in the future in
doing so both parties will have reduced
a future risk and thus would be
considered hedgers both parties reduce
their exposure to certain variations in
the price of corn which could materially
affect their respective businesses
essentially what we've got in that case
it's really just that they fixed a price
in advance for a trade that they'll be
doing at some point in the future in our
next group speculators are individuals
who seek exposure to risky assets with
the aim of making a profit they're often
things like pension plan managers
insurance companies are asset management
firms financial speculation can involve
trading by the I mean buying holding are
selling and short selling stocks bonds
commodities currencies real estate
derivatives are any valuable asset to
attempt to profit from fluctuations in
its price irrespective of its underlying
value many try to differentiate the
concept of speculation from investing
but for our purposes a speculator and an
investor are the same thing they're
individuals or companies who take a
derivatives position with the goal of
profiting from it rather than with the
goal of reducing their risk or hedging
their exposure our next group we're
going to talk about our arbitrage earth
so arbitrage is the practice of taking
advantage of a price difference between
two or more markets it usually involves
the simultaneous purchase and sale of an
asset the profit being the difference
between the market prices
arbitrage is a trade that profits by
exploiting price differences of
identical or extremely similar financial
instruments on different markets or in
different forms our patrasche exists as
a result of market inefficiencies it
provides a mechanism to ensure that
prices do not deviate substantially from
fair value for long periods of time when
the term arbitrage is used by academics
an arbitrage is a transaction that
involves no negative cash flow at any
probabilistic or temporal State and the
positive cash flow in at least one state
so in simple terms what that means is
that it's the possibility of a risk-free
profit at zero costs we'll find
ourselves talking a fair bit about
arbitrage over the course of these
lessons as it's an important idea in
pricing derivatives the key idea being
that any two assets with the same cash
flows and risk should have the same
price hopefully that makes sense to you
next we'll talk about middleman who are
our final group of market participants
in the derivatives market they're
usually investment banks market makers
are brokers they trade derivatives with
the goal of earning a commission or a
bid-ask spread between customers who are
undertaking opposing positions these
market participants typically are not
aiming to accurately predict or profit
from movements in the price of the
underlying they just aim to profit from
the commission or spread that they get
to charge their customers
while in the ordinary running of their
business middlemen can sometimes end up
holding a position which might cause a
profit or loss they typically doing to
avoid this though and will usually hedge
any residual exposures they're left with
if at all possible middlemen benefit
from churns so they really like a lot of
activity in the markets rather than
benefiting from actual accurate
predictions of price changes so chances
are if you made it this far in the video
you've found it at least a little bit
useful if so please hit the like button
below and if you'd like to see more
videos like this do subscribe as well
I'm gonna make a whole series of these
videos in the next one we're going to
discuss the different types of financial
derivatives available to investors and
learn a little bit about the economic
function of the derivatives markets see
you later bye

> Written with [StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/).
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTE3MDE2MjgwNzZdfQ==
-->